rename and improve generic make (#6047)
kyma-project/kyma: common/makefiles/docs/generic-make-go.md

| errcheck, errcheck-local          | Run the [errcheck](https://github.com/kisielk/errcheck) program        |
| test, test-local                  | Run all unit tests.                                            |
| verify                            | Run `test`,`check-fmt`, `check-imports`, and `errcheck`.       |
| resolve, resolve-local            | Run the `dep resolve --vendor-only -v` command.                         |
| ensure, ensure-local              | Run the `	dep ensure -v` command which download dependcies .                                           |
| dep-status, dep-status-local      | Run the `dep status -v` command which prints the status of project dependencies.                                         |
| build, build-local                | Build Go binary.                                               |
| vet, vet-local                    | Run the `go vet` command.                                      |
| build-image                       | Build a Docker image used in the CI environment.    ??                 |
| push-image                        | Pushes the image to image registry, used in CI environment.           |

### Add Generic Makefile

> To add generic Makefile, add to your Makefile following things and fill the variables.

Author: `variables and statement`

> To add generic Makefile, add to your Makefile following things and fill the variables.

Author: ```suggestion
To use the generic Makefile, add these variables and statement to your Makefile:
```

```makefile
APP_NAME = {APPLICATION NAME}
APP_PATH = {APPLICATION PATH IN REPOSITORY}
BUILDPACK = {BUILDPACK IMAGE}
SCRIPTS_DIR = {GENERIC MAKEFILE PATH} 
include $(SCRIPTS_DIR)/generic-make-go.mk
```
Find the list of available images [here](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/templates/config.yaml).

### Detailed workflow 
By example:

> When CI run`make release` the following steps are executed:

Author: ```suggestion
When a job is triggered, the CI runs the `make release`. `Release` rule depends on the `resolve`, `dep-status`, `verify`, `build-image`, and `push-image` rules.  Although these rules do not appear in the Makefile, they are generated. 
```

- rule `release` depends on rules `resolve dep-status verify build-image push-image`
- rule`resolve` does not appear in the Makefile, but it's generated. 
Notice this line of code:
```makefile
MOUNT_TARGETS = build resolve ensure dep-status check-imports imports check-fmt fmt errcheck vet generate pull-licenses gqlgen
$(foreach t,$(MOUNT_TARGETS),$(eval $(call buildpack-mount,$(t))))
```
for resolve, and others targets defined in `MOUNT_TARGETS`, function `buildpack-mount` is callled, which dynamically defines new rule:
```makefile
resolve:
    @echo make resolve
    @docker run $(DOCKER_INTERACTIVE) \
        -v $(COMPONENT_DIR):$(WORKSPACE_COMPONENT_DIR):delegated \
        $(DOCKER_CREATE_OPTS) make resolve-local
```
  as you can see, rule `resolve-local` is executed inside container. 

> - if `resolve` pass, then the next rule will be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `resolve` rule passes, the next rules are executed.
```

> - if exit code of any rules is different than 0, makefile will abort execution and fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any rule fails, the Makefile also aborts the execution and fails as well.
```

List of available BUILDPACK_FUNCTIONS, which generates target dynamically:
- buildpack-mount - create rule and mount component directory as volume
- buildpack-cp-ro - create rule and copy components files to docker container.

> Target types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are the possible target types that contain rules:
```

> - `MOUNT_TARGET` - Contains rules which will be dynamically created by `buildpack-mount` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MOUNT_TARGET` - contains rules which are dynamically created by the `buildpack-mount` function
```

> - `COPY_TARGET` - Contains rules which will be dynamically created by `buildpack-cp-ro` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `COPY_TARGET` - contains rules which are dynamically created by the `buildpack-cp-ro` function
```

> ## How to adjust makefile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adjust the generic Makefile
```

### Disable the current rule in the local Makefile
To disable a rule in the new Makefile, follow it with the semicolon `;`.
For example, write: `{RULE}: ;`.

> This results in the rule being disabled and warnings printed on the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The warning will appear on the console but the rule will be disabled.
```

> ### How to add new local rule, which doesn't need `BUILDPACK`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a new local rule that doesn't need `BUILDPACK`
```

> Define rule in local makefile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new local rule that doesn't need `BUILDPACK`, define a rule in the local Makefile and add this rule to one of the  global rule:
```

> Add this rule to one of the  global rule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```makefile

> verify:: own-rule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
verify: own-rule
```

Author: Nooooo!: )

```

> ### How to add new rule in local makefile, which needs buildpack:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a new local rule that needs `BUILDPACK`
```

> Define rule in local makefile and call function which will create the rule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new local rule that needs `BUILDPACK`, define a rule in the local Makefile and call the function that creates the rule:
```

```makefile

> {my-rule}-local: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{RULE}-local: {COMMAND}
```

Author: ```suggestion
{RULE}-local: {COMMANDS}
```

>     do sth

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> $(eval $(call {BUILDPACK_FUNCTION},my-rule)) # function which will create the new rule

Reviewer: What is that? :)

Author: It's magic : )
This create the `{RULE}` which will execute `{RULE}-local` inside the docker.

```

> ### Add a new rule in the Generic Makefile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a new rule in the generic Makefile
```

> Definie new local rule in `generic_make_go.mk` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new rule in the generic Makefile, define a new local rule in the `generic_make_go.mk` file:
```

```makefile

> your-rule-local:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{YOUR_RULE}-local: @echo {COMMAND}
```

Author: ```suggestion
{YOUR_RULE}-local:  {COMMANDS}
```

>     @echo do sth

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```

> Append rule name to the `MOUNT_TARGETS` or `COPY_TARGETS` variables.

Reviewer: ?

| push-image                        | Pushes the image to the image registry used in the CI environment.           |

### Example workflow 
The generic Makefile is used by the CI.
When a job is triggered, the CI runs the `make release` command.
The `release` rule depends on the `resolve`, `dep-status`, `verify`, `build-image`, and `push-image` rules.
Although these rules do not appear in the Makefile, they are generated. 
 
The generic Makefile contains such a line of code:
```makefile
MOUNT_TARGETS = build resolve ensure dep-status check-imports imports check-fmt fmt errcheck vet generate pull-licenses gqlgen
$(foreach t,$(MOUNT_TARGETS),$(eval $(call buildpack-mount,$(t))))
```
For all the rules defined in **MOUNT_TARGETS**, the `buildpack-mount` function is called. It dynamically defines a new rule:
```makefile
resolve:
    @echo make resolve
    @docker run $(DOCKER_INTERACTIVE) \
        -v $(COMPONENT_DIR):$(WORKSPACE_COMPONENT_DIR):delegated \
        $(DOCKER_CREATE_OPTS) make resolve-local
```
As you can see, the `resolve-local` rule is executed inside the container. 
If the `resolve` rule passes, the next rules are executed.

> If any rule fails, the Makefile also aborts the execution and fails as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any rule fails, the Makefile aborts the execution and fails as well.
```

There are two available **BUILDPACK_FUNCTIONS** which generate the rule dynamically:
- `buildpack-mount` - creates the rule and mounts component's directory as volume
- `buildpack-cp-ro` - creates the rule and copies component's files to a Docker container

These are two variables which contain rules names that are created dynamically:
- **MOUNT_TARGET** - contains rules which are dynamically created by the `buildpack-mount` function
- **COPY_TARGET** - contains rules which are dynamically created by the `buildpack-cp-ro` function

## Adjust the generic Makefile

### Disable the current rule in the local Makefile
To disable a rule in the new Makefile, follow it with the semicolon `;`.
For example, write: `{RULE}: ;`.

> The warning will appear on the console but the rule will be disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The warning will appear in the console but the rule will be disabled.
```

> ### Add a new local rule that doesn't need `BUILDPACK`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a new local rule that doesn't need a buildpack
```

> To add a new local rule that doesn't need `BUILDPACK`, define a rule in the local Makefile and add this rule to one of the global rule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new local rule that doesn't need a buildpack, define a rule in the local Makefile and add this rule to one of the global rule:
```

```makefile
verify:: {YOUR_RULE}
```

> ### Add a new local rule that needs `BUILDPACK`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a new local rule that needs a buildpack
```

> To add a new local rule that needs `BUILDPACK`, define a rule in the local Makefile and call the function that creates the rule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new local rule that needs a buildpack, define a rule in the local Makefile and call the function that creates the rule:
```

```makefile
{RULE}-local: {COMMANDS}

# Function which creates the new rule dynamically

> $(eval $(call {BUILDPACK_FUNCTION},my-rule)) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$(eval $(call {BUILDPACK_FUNCTION},{RULE})) 
```
